We give you comfort here.
Calm down.
Hello.
Hi, sir, good evening. Yeah, hello, good
evening. Good evening sir. So I just logged in
before because last time it was having lot of trouble in
login. So
we have time 5 minutes
more.
Hello sir.
So
you
have any doubt?
Last classes?
Sorry, last class I could not upload the listing
out last notes on times that can you is
enable a link again?
How many people could not?
You can write that in the chat box. Hmm.
Okay, again, one by one we'll writing, it will again pop up, so many
message. Hmm.
Sir, actually, the first time I was not able to, then the second time I grabbed
all the four notes which I had uploaded.
Okay.
Okay. That is fine. I will enable it.
Sure, sir.
So regarding the content of the course, you have any doubt?
Content means any... Whatever I have taught so far, from
that.
So after two classes, I will tell you what is the use case of
reinforcement learning (coughs) in the language
models. Large language models, they are using reinforcement
learning. After two or three classes, I will tell
you about it.
Hmm. You have heard about this term for RL,
RLHF? In the LLM domain, those
who are into that. RLHF term, have you
heard about it?
Not yet. Anyhow, do you guys come across any
requirement in your company project, uh, of using,
uh, LL, LLM
as a post-training phase of LLM?
Yeah. So we build solutions with LLMs, right.
So, uh, for example, some of the agentic solution that we are
building that leverages LLMs, like OLAMA 2, we will use
it.
Okay. So do you-
And, uh-
... require to do any, anything post-training
phase for LLM?
Correctly,
Sorry. Within my work, like training is not there, so we just use LLMs.
Yeah. Post-training also not
there?
No.
So you are using OLAM, I mean, OLAMA, what,
uh, 3.2 version, whatever it is there.
Yeah.
You use them with your own data set, right?
Yes.
Okay. So that does not require RL
HF. Okay.
Another person was saying something?
Uh, actually, um, I have a doubt. So, uh, uh,
basically I'm not able to, uh, relate, where like in the...
We are taking the example of this band width slippery, so where we take a
action, so there, there is a probability that it may end up
into the, uh, whatever the a- towards what action we have
taken, or else it will slip and back.
So, uh, so in the reinforcement learning, we have learned some basics like,
uh, action, policy. So what actually we are trying to
study over there b- u- by ex- uh, through this slippery
example. Um, with the policy,
es- yesterday's class, I even went through once again, so,
uh, let's hope I get more clarity today.
So, uh- Hmm. ... I was not a- able to relate it to properly,
to the previous.
Hmm.
Can you just give... Can you just give some, throw some, uh, connecting points
over this, sir?
Okay. So your first question was that, uh, I take a action
and, uh,
(clears throat) and there is a slippery environment.
(sighs)
I fall back to some undesired position, and
then, uh, the game still goes on.
And finally, after the end of the episode, you are reaching either to
goal state or you might not reach the goal state, your game is over.
So your question is, why that is happening?
Hmm. And here, uh, the policy i- i- the,
in the policy itself, we have set a... It is the slippery.
I want to understand more about that, sir.
Policy is just a rule o- or something.
I'm not getting still clarity.
Policy. Policy is a... Policy is a rule that takes care of all kind of uncertainty
that may happen in the environment.
So our human mind is, hmm, is a deterministic
mind, okay. You do something
and you always
expect that the result that you are expecting is
going to happen. You may have to wait for some amount of time, it is going to
happen. That is how we behave actually.
But, hmm, in the real life,
uh, y- you, as a human being, you are working in an
environment. An environment is throwing you
challenges which are unknown to you.
So in that situation, hmm, you are going to take one more
trial, few more trials like that, but how long you can keep on doing this
trial? And after taking so many trials, do you, hmm,
uh, learn something or you just think that it has
been a wastage? In case of reinforcement learning, whatever trial you
have made, even though it has resulted into a failure, all of their
trial outcome is going to be
stored in the memory.
So that in future, when you, when you are falling back to the same
state again, you are not going to retry the same
trial again and again. Uh, even though
you... It is a probability by which you are choosing your action, what action
you are going to take. So if the earlier result, earlier
action
on the same state has resulted into failure, you will try to reduce the
probability of taking that action.
That is the main learning objective for reinforcement
learning. With the example of slippery bandit
walk, I have shown you this,
uh,
this example. This is the example,
okay.In this example, this is a starting
state- Screen is not shared and you're-
Screen is, screen is not shared.
Oh, screen is not shared. Oh, okay.
Let me just...
So, so basically like we are, uh, trying to score 100 marks and we won't get
100 marks, so that's why we again...
Uh, that's the case is slippery in real life example, if we take
something like that. And why we didn't get that marks and
we, uh, tried to reduce those mistakes.
The same thing what we, uh, we are trying to do in reinforcement learning.
Right, sir?
Hmm, yes, yes. But I'll... In my
end, is to show you some more increa- interesting data.
Uh, let me just-
Okay. ... minimize this.
How to minimize this part?
You are able to see the PDF, right?
Sir, we are able to see.
Okay. Now you look at... This is my banded
slippery walk environment. Zero
to six, I have so many states. Okay?
So totally seven states are there.
The starting state is three. Every
(clears throat) time I take a action, I do not receive any
reward. Okay? Only when I reach the
goal state, I receive a reward of one.
Apart from that, I do not receive any reward.
And this H state is a terminal state, okay?
And goal state is also a terminal state.
Apart from that, you have one, two, three, four, five, these are the non-terminal
state. Okay. This one... How to
minimize this? This is actually blocking this view, right?
For you?
No, no, it's good for us. Yeah. It's not for us. Yeah.
It's not, it's not
visible. It is not blocking, right? No, not blocking.
Not blocking. Yes. Because I see on my screen there is a sharing, a small version of
window coming up.
No. Not visible for us.
Not visible for us. Okay. Okay. Fine. Okay.
So in this case,
this is a real problem. Okay? The slippery environment,
as I told you, from any state, uh, currently you are living in
any state, you take e- your
action is on the left-hand side, with
0.5 probability, you will be going to the left-hand
side, with 0.33 probability, you will be remaining in the same
state, with 0.16 probability, you will be going to the cell on the right-hand
side. That is the slippery environment, which takes care of your uncertainty
in the environment. Okay. So e- in case of deterministic
case, in case of movement, we try to move...
Take action on the left-hand side, definitely we will be...
We are going to land up into the state, which is on the left-hand side.
That is not going to happen in the case of slippery
environment. Now, in the policy
evaluation,
we will show you that
even though you take... All the cells are taking the
s- action to be left,
even in that situation, under the slippery environment, there is a
probability, that probability might be negligible,
that you start from the state number three, you will be
landing to the goal state of six,
because of a slippery environment. Okay?
That probably is negligible, but it still shows you there
is
a chance of still success. Okay? I will show you that
in today's class. Yesterday's class, I have drawn it,
I have done it by manual example. Today, since you have raised
the question, let me answer your question, then I'll show you the derivation.
Okay? Derivation is just calculation, nothing
more. The calculations are very straightforward. So look at...
This is my environment of, uh, frozen lake
environment. It has four cross four grid
size. I'm starting from the state of zero.
My goal is to reach the state of 15. Okay?
And this is my random policy. Look at re-...
It is showing that randomly generated policy.
You start from the randomly generated policy,
then you evaluate what is the value for living
in every cell. That is called the policy
evaluation. That means you are evaluating how good is our policy.
So policy evaluation means, under that
policy, what is the value for leaving the
agent in every cell? Zero, one, two, three, four,
five, six. Every cell, you are going to evaluate the value.
Okay? If the value of staying in s-
state of zero is having some positive probability, that means that is the
percentage of chance that you will be landing...
You start from this state, after doing so many trial, you will be
landing up to the goal state. Okay?
So that is what is called mo- policy evaluation.
Now,
in order to give the brief... I mean, the total, that is called big picture, I will
show you how that is coming up. That I will not show you right now.
I will show you what is the aim of this doing all of this policy
evaluation and all. That is a randomly generated
policy. Okay? So this is the randomly generated policy.
After doing the policy evaluation, all the cells are having these
values.
In this, this cell, this cell, all the scale...
Cells, they are having a square inside, they are called terminal s-
state. That means once you get into those state, you will never be able to come
out, so your game has to get over. So look at the value here, the
0.0955. That means
this is the probability that if you start your game from this cell,
you will be landing up to the goal state after doing so many
trial. Now, look at the value for being into this
cell. This cell, okay? It is saying 0.047.
That is the probability
of the agent living in this cell... I mean, he...
If he is, uh, starting the game from this cell, he will be landing up to
the goal state with this probability. Okay?
So this is the policy evaluation. Policy evaluation goes on for
a certain amount of iteration. Ultimately, it results
into the value-... for living in this particular
cell. That is the meaning of policy evaluation.
Now, this is a randomly generated policy. This policy...
So what is the meaning of policy? Policy means, for every state,
you are going to map it to an action.
The action is right-hand side and the start state.
The action for the next cell, cell number one, is this left-hand side
direction action, okay?
Now, you may think that
if this is the policy, for every cell I have given a direction of
action, you might think that my agent is taking a right-side direction
action. It is lining up to state cell number one.
From there, it is taking, again, left-hand side direction.
It is getting back to state number zero.
Again, from here, it will take a right-hand side direction.
It will get to state number one. So this will toggle between S...
Zero and one. It will never be able to come out, right?
If this is the policy, your agent is going to be toggling between
zero and one all the time.
So that... If you consider this is the
policy under a deterministic environment, okay, in
that case, your agent will be forever into a loop of zero and one, zero
and one, zero and one, okay? But it is a,
uh, slippery environment. That
means you have a probability of
0.33 to go to... From the state number zero,
0.33 probability you'll be going to the state number one,
okay? With 0.33 probability, you'll take a right-angle
side direction, you are hitting the wall, you'll fall back to same
state. Again, with 0.33 probability, you will be taking
action in the left, uh, you... Just 90-degree angle in the downside, you'll be
hitting the cell in the vertically down.
That is, one, two, three, one, one, two, three, four,
fourth cell. Here, this cell, okay?
This, this, this cell you'll be arriving.
So because of the slippery environment, even though your actions
are contradictory, the direction of the actions are against each
other, still you will be able to navigate through this
environment and you have a hope to reach the goal state,
okay? So, this is exactly the real-life
situation. It means that even though you are in a very
bad... you are choosing the wrong actions, but your
environment is giving a hope that you have a bright, uh...
You may have a chance of bright future, okay?
Look at it just like, uh, your own li- our own life.
From the childhood, we are growing up.
We're learning so many mistakes, right?
So, all of these actions are actually your, uh, life
stage actions that we have taken up.
Even though all of the actions are actually contradicting to each other,
but still you are rising, because it is just like
situation like
man proposes, God disposes,
okay?
And man disposes what God proposes.
You, you... All of you have heard this thing,
right? You are-
Yes, sir.
... working very hard, desiring a result, but you are not
getting that result. So, actually, you may believe in
God, may not believe in God, just consider the nature is
rejecting your work, okay? And for
some work which you have not done
s-... So, uh, uh, you have not put so much of effort, you have not paid
any attention, but still you have got some result, good result.
So, it means basically, man disposes what
God proposes, okay?
So like that is the environment. That is the job of the reinforcement learning.
So this is a randomly generated policy.
It shows the value of living in this state is
0.955. We have another policy in this book.
It said it is given
that the values are... Okay, look at
this. There are two policy. One is
go-get-it policy. You can see the naming, right? Go-get-it policy.
It's about greedy policy. A human being, he is a greedy man.
He wants to reach to the goal. That is why this
book is a very good book for me. Uh, where is the page
going?
Okay. So there are two policy. One is go-get-it
policy, other one is careful policy.
Look at the direction of action. From start state, you are
taking right-hand side, right-hand side, le- uh, right-hand side, reaching to this
particular cell. That is this value.
Then you take left-hand side. Uh, no, not h-...
Then you take a downside, downside,
downside here, and then you are taking right-hand
side, you are reaching the goal, okay?
So you might think this is a very good policy.
Good means, as, uh... In the current scenario,
every man is becoming greedy.
Okay? In this situation, you look at, this policy is good.
You might think that this is good policy.
Or even if you take this action, this set of action, you start from
here, you go to this cell,
0.460 is the value of this cell. From here, you go
here, okay? Then again you go to this
cell. From there, you go to this cell,
and then down, then go to right, you reach
this s- goal state, okay? So what is the
value under this policy, under this go-get-it policy,
what is the value for the start state?
It is 0.342, okay?
Now, look at, this is a careful policy. Careful pi-...
He is not a greedy man. He takes step by thinking
a lot,
okay? Now, look at the value for, uh, result for
hi- this state. It is 0.407, okay?
0.407. And look at the value for this,
this... Under this policy, it is 0.03.
It is a much lesser value. Even though it is a greedy
policy, uh...... to any human being, even when I was
reading six months back this book, I was thinking
about this is a very good policy. But after reading this book for two, three times,
I understood, oh, man, I was making big
mistake. Without evaluating the policy,
I was thinking this is a very good policy. I can reach a goal state.
But look at here in this action, this set of action, from the start state, I
take a left-hand side. I am hitting the wall.
Because of the slippery state, I may go into this
cell or I may go into this cell.
Right?
Suppose I go into this particular cell because of
slippery, you know. What is the action prescribed by this policy?
The action is, again, go and hit on the wall by taking a left-hand
side. So because of slippery cell, you may be landing to the
dead state here, or you may be landing to this state.
If you land into this state, your action is specifying to
preserving to that on the up- upside direction. Okay?
Because of slippery, you may take up side, you may take
left-hand side, which you are going to hit the wall.
You might take right-hand side. If
your, uh, coin-tossing by which you are doing
deci- decision-making, if it is turning up to the right-hand side, you are falling
to the desired cell. That is this cell.
From there you take
this poli- uh, this action. This action may take you to
either back to this cell, or it may back to, uh, I
mean, right-hand side cell, or it may take you to the
down cell. Okay? Under every possible condition of this
policy, if you do the policy evaluation, this policy evaluation algorithm is
going to run for
quite a good amount of time. And then it will be converging.
Converging means the value for each and every
state is not changing anymore. Okay?
The value is going to be saturating.
That is called convergence of the algorithm.
When this algorithm is converging, look at the value for living
in the start state, 0.40 here. It is
0.03. So, the chances of reaching the goal
under go-get-it policy is much lesser than the careful
policy.
Right? So that is... So i- it took me half an
hour to explain you why we are doing all this
problem-solving. I have not solved the problem.
I only given you the objective of why should we solve this
problem.
Yes, sir.
Okay, so-
Sir, uh, now back.
... how we will do that?
Uh- Yeah.
I said, I have a small again que- query.
Yeah.
What you also had the... when I'm also in the same, uh, the same ambiguity as that.
So when you say the go-get policy, uh, even this environment is also slippery now,
sir, or it's a di- deterministic?
Like the... It will take this, uh, state only?
Uh, go-get policy is a greedy policy.
Uh-
Yes, I understand,
sir. ... both of them are, both of them are slippery. Yeah.
Yes, they're both are slippery. So if there is, you can even start, it can even go
down also, because from there also it will go down.
Again it can come to this same transition state within five states.
Hmm.
It can reach the goal state.
Yes, yes.
Yes. So then how come this value of 0.0342 is calculated when compared to
this, when you have the same probabilistic-
Hmm.
Hmm. ... in for go-get policy also, and careful policy also.
Hmm. So we have a algorithm for that, that is called policy evaluation
algorithm.
Same.
Okay. So now today, uh, I will get into policy
evaluation. So given any policy, you want to
evaluate what is the value for living in
every state under this policy, and this
policy separately will evaluate them.
Okay?
The evolution mechanism is going to be remaining the
same. The formula is same. Okay? We are
going to use this formula again and again. The formula is given here.
Okay? You all ex- uh, understand this formula, or do I
need to explain it?
Understood.
Yeah.
Understood, right?
There once more, please.
Once more.
Okay, fine.
Before I explain, should I show you this into, uh, any
Python?
That's better.
So that, huh?
Yes, sir. Yes, sir. We can show it in the Python so we can appreciate, by each and
every state how it is.
Okay.
By hand, I will show you later. First, let me show you in the Python
program, okay? So this is your random walk
environment. You have a, hmm,
uh, sto- highly stochastic environment it is.
All of you can see this, uh, Python notebook?
Yes, sir.
Yes.
Okay, so the environment says that 50% chance is a
success, 50% chance in the backward side.
So it is not, uh, the environment that 50% chance is the
success, uh, 33% chance is staying back to the same
state, 16% chance is going to the backward state.
I did not consider this environment right now, however, we can do that.
But for simple case, I have taken 50% chance on success, 50% on
failure case. Failure means you are going backward by one state, okay?
So you have how many non-terminal state? Five non-terminal state.
Two are the terminal state. Just in this PDF
itself, this H and G, they are terminal
state. Uh, one, two, three, four, five, these five states are
non-terminal. Okay? That means you can keep on moving, you can keep on oscillating
among each other state.
Okay.So look at your environment is basically like
this. T, terminal, terminal state here, okay?
T, then state number one, two, three, four, five.
Next state is a terminal state, last state, okay?
So agent is, agent is starting from the state number three, okay?
You have left action and right side
action.
Okay? This is a random walk environment. You have...
All of you have heard this problem called ran- random walk,
okay? So, I have described my environment
just to explain you, this is a non-terminal state
of... Um, okay, this,
this, this first one.
Hey, SenselessAnger.
This is a current state. One column, that means you are in the current state of
one. In this next state dictionary, you have
two action to be taken, zero or one. This one is zero.
Zero means you are taking a left side, side action, okay? It is written here.
It is left-hand side action, okay? And one is...
Basically, this one is standing for right-hand side action.
Under each and every action, what is your probability?
0.5 probability that you are going to the left side
cell. So you are going to the cell number zero, fine?
What is the reward you are getting? Zero reward.
Is the cell number zero is a terminal state, yes or not?
It is a terminal state, zero. Zero means this, this state of
A, okay? This, this one, H, this is a terminal
state.
So this is true over here, that is your terminal state is
true. 0.5 probability under the action of
zero, you are going to the failure case.
That is you are m- m-... You, you have taken a left-hand side action but you are
going to the right-hand side cell, that is true.
Reward is zero, your
state number two is not a terminal, so it's false.
That is how it is described here. Okay, now I go
into the policy evaluation. Now look at, this is a
function of policy evaluation. This code I will tell
you just after a few minutes. Let me tell you, if I run the
policy evaluation, my objective is what?
For policy evaluation, the objective is it will run for
some amount of iteration, okay? Till it is not converging.
The convergence criteria is given here.
That means the
value for each and every state, they are no longer
changing. Then I'm stopping the policy, okay?
So let me tell you what is my action policy now.
Pi, pi basically your policy. What is the
pi?
Pi is basically...
Policy.
It's in policies.
At the state of zero, yeah, policy, at the state of zero, I'm taking
left-hand side action, okay? At the state of one, I am taking
left-hand side action. Look at left-hand side action.
State of two, I'm taking left-hand side.
So for every state, I am taking left, left, left action,
fine? My objective is exactly this here.
I want to start from the st- uh, state number three
and I want to go to the goal state of six.
If I take all the left-hand side action,
still I have a chance to reach the goal state.
That is the objective of policy evaluation, okay?
What is my environment? This is a random walk.
Random walk is this variable. This is the random walk variable,
okay? This is the random walk
variable, my environment. Look at how simple
I have made it here. I have imported only numpy, I have not done anything
else.
I'm not using the OpenAI environment called, um,
Gym and all. My goal state is
six, okay?
Now look at, I am going to start the policy evaluation and I'm going
to get some value. The value is print the
state_value function. This is...
It will print the value for living in a particular
state, fine? Let me run this now.
I have not yet explained the policy evaluation algorithm, okay?
I will show you that
just to give you... Build up a
confidence about this problem, because these are the very difficult
problem to anyone understand without showing the
practical example. So I have run the, uh...
This is my policy, this
is... Okay? Now
I'm going to run this. The policy evaluation, what I'm giving, I'm
giving my environment and giving the policy.
Given a policy, I want to find out what is the value for leaving a
particular cell. I run
it, I run this print_state_value.
Now I'm going to run this, okay? So look
at. Under this policy of every
cell is moving on the left-hand side action, so look at this
value for living in this
cell number one is 0.16. That means 0.16 is the probability that
still you can reach
the goal state
starting the game at the state of one.
This means,
at state of two, you have a chance of 0.33 probability to reach the goal state.
Like that for every
cell, if you look at, they have a positive probability for reaching the goal
state, okay? Now look at
the value are rising as and when you are going
towards the goal state, okay? So naturally, five is a cell
which is just before the goal state, it is values the
highest, okay? So
look at all the time I'm taking left side action, still I have some positive
probability to go reach the goal state.
That is the beauty of-Sequential
decision making under uncertainty.
Okay.
Now, what is policy version algorithm?
So, so far you have been clear, right, what we are getting out of it.
But in this example, you indicate the value of the policy when we are going to the
right, sir. Because if it's state five, we have the high chance of getting into the
core state. But when you show this diagram showing in, uh, reverse direction-
No, all are
left hand. ... but what we are getting output is the right side, no, sir?
Here, all are left side.
So
All are left side action.
Look at, all are left side action.
The diagram, it is for... In the
book, it is also showing the all are left hand side
action.
So in that case, if I suppose I'm starting at the state of five-
Mm-hmm.
... then we have this, um... So this is what's slippery environment or it's a-
Yeah, slippery, slippery environment.
... slippery environment. Okay, sir.
Then in that case, the arrow, I can either hit the wall, I can go to the state
four, or I can go down because again, it come back to the five.
Hmm.
But I don't have this going to s- uh, this goal state of state six.
So how come this pro- probability can be a 0.8337, your exam which you have shown
here?
Okay, so this is running, this is...
Let me write this.
This is 0.833. This is keep on updating.
After that, and only you are getting the value.
For one step, if I run it for one
step-
Sir.
Okay. ... in that case, we will show you the value.
So here you say one step is one episode.
Mm-hmm.
Wait a minute. This algorithm is going to run
for while true, okay? Instead of that, if I just run it for only one
time.
Okay. In that case, you will get a value
for only the state of five.
Okay. Now, how that is
calculated? The calculation is given here.
Let me
show you.
Last class I have shown you
this one.
Mm-hmm. Okay.
Look at. My policy is this all right hand
side. You can change this policy, no
problem. I will de- I'll
create one more page.
Okay. So the
policy
all are left hand side.
You are able to see the screen fully?
Yes, it
Yes. We are able to see.
For my, it is blocking this. Sharing
all the time.
Sir, you can hide it. You have an option where the...
If you click on More, and if you... There is an option called Hide, a
menu, something.
Click More.
Visible annotation. No, I'm not able
to- Uh, you can drag that to the bottom of the screen
and try that maybe.
Hmm, let me see.
Even if I drag it, it is
(coughs) going down. Still remain, but
anyhow, managed to that. Okay,
so this is my
states. In a whole
state, zero,
one, two,
three, four, five,
six is my goal state, okay. My policies are all left
hand side movement.
Under slippery environment, all are left hand side, okay?
All are left hand side. So your policy
is
left hand side for every state. Now you want to
develop this policy. So
value
when you have
one... This standing for number of iteration or you have how many time step
remaining. Value for being in the state of
five. Okay. When you have one step
remaining, that means you have started your game from the state of five.
You have, you are allowed to take only one step.
In that case, what is it? (clears throat) So the
formula says that you have
summation
over
probability... Mm,
wait, it will
be pi
A given five. You want a set of five.
Okay. Your action
is... What is your action here? All the state .
Left hand side action.
Okay. Probability of S
dashed. Again, this will be summation over S dashed.
Given you have taken
action A
and the state of five. This multiplied by
reward
for
the state action and next state. S
is a current state. S means you have five,
okay-... current state is five.
You have taken action, a. Next state is s dashed.
So here your S dashed can be
...
Your S dashed can be-
Four.
From five, n- your next state can be four or it can be six.
Yeah.
So S dashed is four or six,
okay? Because it is slippery environment, 0.5 probability you'll be going to the
... this cell, 0.5 probability you'll be going to the cell of six,
okay? This multiplied by gamma. Gamma is
your, uh, discount factor, multiplied
by value
when you have zero time step left. So it will be one minus of
one. You have taken one step, so one minus of one,
and then you are getting the state of S dashed.
This is what is a formula. Now, if you further write down,
what is the probability of choosing? Uh
You have only one action, left-hand side action, okay?
Because the policies face only one action.
So this will be turning out, this product will be one.
Okay? So one multiplied by
your
probability of this. So probability
of you are landing into the state of four, given
that currently you are into this, you have taken a action as, uh, uh,
left-hand side action. This multiplied by reward plus
gamma, multiplied by
V0 of next state is, uh, four. This,
okay? Plus, for the six
case
... So this summation, I, I have to erase
now.
So then probability of getting into
the state of six, given that you are into the state of
five, you have taken action of L. This multiplied
by reward plus
gamma, multiplied by this V- You have no time step
remaining.
Next state is your six.
Now, what is the value found here? This probability is
0.5. As for the slippery environment,
multiplied by reward is zero. Intermediate state has no reward, okay?
This gamma multiplied V04, every
state is going to be initialized of the value of zero initialization.
So your all of your state
V0 of S, for all the
state-
Zero.
This is for
all of S.
For all of S, it's going to be zero, okay?
So this is zero. Divided by zero plus.
This is 0.5 multiplied by
... Reward is
one, because you have got into six.
Plus gamma multiplied by V0 of six, that is also zero,
okay? This is zero. So your value is becoming
0.5, just ... And the iteration of one, okay?
And the iteration of one, this value for this state is going to be
similarly calculated-
S- Sir, h- uh, here I just don't know, not able to understand how you go into
calculating this, uh, sample space of six also, sir?
Because you see the arrow graph, uh, we are facing towards the left, and if it's
slippery-
Uh-huh.
... environment, you told that we can only go to 90 degree.
So if we go to the six, it'll be totally 180 degree now, sir.
So why you are calculating that sample space?
Uh-huh. Here itself, your question is, how I am getting this
state, right?
No, sir. Uh, uh, my question is, how we are taking the sample state six as here in
first step, S dash of 4,6? Like, if you are in state five-
S dashed
is four- ... either we can hit to the wall and be in state five?
S dashed, S dashed, this is a set. This is a set notation-
Yes,
Okay? So-
Yes, sir. Yes, it means-
I can be either four or in six, because my environment is a slippery
environment.
Yes, sir. If it is slippery environment, we can only take maximum of 90 degree, but
if you say state six, it'll be 180 degree.
No, no. In this case, you are considering 90 degree in case of frozen
lake, when you have so many things, right?
Okay.
In case of frozen lake, you have ...
You are taking this action-
Yes.
... but as a result of slippery, you may be 90 degree here or you may be 90 ...
That is the frozen lake case. But in this case, you have 180
movement.
Okay.
Either you go here or you go here.
Understood, sir. Okay, sir.
Okay. So that is how we calculate V105. V104 is going to be ...
Similarly, if you calculate, your next state
can be ... I'm just writing it directly. Okay.
This, this, this sum, I'm writing.
Your
S dashed
is
either three
or five. Probability of
S dashed given, currently you are into the state of four.
This is given symbol, given. State of four, you are taking a left-hand side
movement,
multiplied by
reward plus
... Wait a minute. This, I have to drag it up
now.
I think there should be some possibility to minimize this.
S-
Hmm.
Sir, hide floating controls will also be there somewhere,
in that green bar.
Hide floating ... More option.
In more option, yeah, there is a option called as
hide floating meeting control.
Hide names of this, hide video panel.
The video
panel- Video panels means we'll, we'll go, sir.
We, uh, with our faces, which is looking for-
Okay.
And, uh, if you hide floating-
Hide floating meeting control.
... the section will go.
Okay, okay.
If you press Escape, it'll come back.
Yes, yes. Yeah, yeah, thank you.So are
you... You are more smart in this because you conduct frequent
meeting.
Yes.
Okay, fine. Uh-huh. We hardly conduct any
meeting or do online. (laughs) Okay,
so now this reward plus of gamma multiplied
by... So this will be reduced by one
step. You have no more step remaining. What is the s- next state?
S test. Okay? Now you just write
it as per the formula. So probability of
getting into the state of three. Currently you are in four and
taking left-hand side. This multiplied by this.
Hmm, what is the reward for
state to state movement from four to three? Reward is zero.
Intermediate state reward is zero.
Gamma multiplied by V0. Everybody's is initialized with
zero value.
Yeah.
Multiplied by that. Plus probability
of-
Of reaching five.
Five, going to five, given that you are in the state of four.
And then-
You have taken left-hand side movement.
What is the reward for getting, uh-
Zero.
... for going to five is zero.
Yep.
This-
It's like zero.
Gamma multiplied by V0 of
five.
Okay. That is also zero.
That is also zero, so here at zero plus zero, we have zero plus zero
ultimately. V1 of four is zero,
okay? Now interestingly, I will compute right now, you
have d- seen this thing, right? I just write
step two.
So V1 of three is also zero, okay?
Oh.
Similarly. So I'll just modify this for step
two, for iteration two.
So here, this will be iteration number changing.
So here, this iteration number will be changing.
And here, that value I'll be writing up.
So then now I do this. This, this,
so...
Then... Okay, so now I'm going to write the
state value
at the iteration two, wh- what is the value for me to
leave in the state of four? So this will remain the
same. This
I have now one more time left, because for iteration two, I'll be
using the value obtained in the iteration of one,
okay? So it is basically you have
two steps (laughs) left over at the state of four.
You want to calculate the value for living in the state of four.
For that, you are going to use, you have taken one action, so naturally,
one time step has gone. You have one more time step remaining, so you can
reuse the old value, okay?
So for this, what is this? This is already known to us.
This zero plus of gamma multiplied by V1
of... So this will be V1 of-
Sir, can you use another color because it's...
Okay, I'll use another color.
Yeah, and then can you just repeat from our iterations to sir?
Okay.
One
moment. Let me erase
this.
Okay, so everything remaining same, I'm increasing my iteration now.
My color, let me change this to blue
color.
So at the iteration two,
V2, for living in a state of
four, this
transition dynamics will remain same.
This is multiplied by reward plus of gamma multiplied by the
value-
V1.
... once type, I mean, one time you have lost because of taking one action, so
you have one action time step remaining.
Wait. You left
S test.
Okay, so your next state is S test. S test is coming from
either three or five. So just you open up this one, so
going to the state of three, this will remain the same.
What is the reward for going to the state of three from the state of four is
zero. So gamma multiplied by
V1 of three. So V1 of three
here. V1 of
three, bracket closing here. Two brackets are
closing.
Let me write this
properly.
V1 of three
is closing here, okay? Then for the another case,
you are going to the state of five because of slippery environment.
From the state of four, another action of left-hand
side, so reward that is zero plus gamma
multiplied by, you have one more time step remaining,
you are currently getting into the state of five, okay?
So this will be V1 of three is zero. So
zero plus of zero, this part is whatever positive part is
there, it will be nullifying. This plus, what is the
probability of getting in the state of five from the state of four?
That is 0.5.
Uh,
Multiplied by-
0.5.
... zero plus of
V1 of five. V1 of five is, you have already obtained it here.
This is, this is 0.5.
0.5.Okay. So now
v2 of four, the value is 0.25
now.
Okay.
Fine. Now v2 of three is going to
be... You are going to reuse the value of
v1 of four and v1 of two, so
v1 of four is zero.
Zero.
So, so v2 of three value everybody will going to be
zero. Okay.
So like that, like that this will go on.
So this is called policy evaluation.
So policy evaluation means for each and every state I want to evaluate what is the
value for the agent to live in that state.
You are going to use only one formula.
That this is the formula from here to
here.
From here to
Okay.
And this formula is given here also.
From here we are getting.
Okay. That is how exactly they are evaluating.
Don't get confused here. Here they have considered three possibility of
states. From the state of five, you can get into
state of four with a probability of 0.5, okay?
From the state of five, you can get in the state back to five again with
a probability of
0.33 here, okay? It is a probability
from five to five. And from five to six, the probability is
0.16. Okay? You can do this
e- formula the same, the value will keep on changing.
I have not explained you how the Python is doing that function. I will...
In the next class I will tell you. You have time because you have 28 lectures to
be followed, and we have only two units.
If you understand policy evaluation
and, uh, policy iteration, okay, your 50% task is
over for this course.
Sir, how long, uh, this loop will go on, sir?
This loop will go on so long
that
this is the value... Okay, this is the value for each and every
state. Okay. So
... means the value for the agent to live in
each and every state is given here, given
here, okay? So at the iteration number of 104,
the value is given like this.
When these values are no longer changing, even though you go on for so many
iterations beyond 104, if these values are not changing, that
means your value function has actually saturated.
It cannot change any further, so then your
functional stop.
Thank you, sir.
Okay.
So in this one, I have
configured only
random walk of 0.5 probability here and 0.5
probability here. From the state of four, from the state of
four, you can go to state of three or state of five.
So, you can do one thing. You can write your own environment
here
by
creating one more topple, just like this.
You copy this, you create one more
topple.
Okay. Change the values of probability.
This will become five. The state will be from four to
three. State will be
four to four, the probability is
0.33. State will be
166. I mean, your next state is going to be from
four-
Three.
No. Five.
Fine. That is how you will create the environment
and run the policy. I will share you this thing.
Uh, I'll share you this notebook. You just run the
policy,
and you are going to enhance the environment only, okay?
Just like this. Do that. Whether this state is
going to be false or true, you do it carefully.
It is the state of five, is it terminal state?
If it is terminal state, then here it will be true, okay?
So I will be sharing this. You do it on your own, and you get
a good feeling. If you run on your own, you have a positive
feeling that, yes, I have understood
something.
Fine? I'll send, download this one and send it to you right now in this
chat box itself.
Where is the chat box? How to get it?
Press escape, sir. You will get the control.
Hmm? Press? Escape.
Escape. Escape.
Yeah, I got it. Yeah.
Okay, here is a
chat.
You have got this
Yes.
So let me share you this now.
Download.
So this is going to be your home task. This is not a assignment.
Excuse
me, sir.
Hmm. Yeah.
Uh, sir, uh, candidates are asking for the daily
note submission, but due to limited cloud storage, I
think, uh, we should consider the submission on weekly basis.
Otherwise, we will face, uh, storage issues.
Then grading them will be difficult for us.
So sir, what is your suggestion over this?
Kindly requesting you to suggest a solution over the same.
No, do it weekly.
Do it weekly.
Hmm,
So they are saying, uh, like, uh, 10 MB is not
sufficient. I have provided, uh, the link now, Google
link-
Hmm.
... Google Form link. There, they are uploading the class notes.
They are saying 10 MB is not enough for uploading the
documents.
No, 10 MB for four classes will not be enough.
For each class, that is more than enough.
If you are enabling the link-
I am enabling the link for, for, uh, for whole day
now. You can upload.
For weekly basis, uh, 10 MB is the limit I think.
And, uh, even you can use only com- compressor tool for compressing that PDFs.
Hmm.
Oh, weekly twice, weekly two classes, right?
Uh, uh, so let's take an example. Uh, even for deep
learning, we are, uh, allowed to upload only 100 per, uh, I mean,
uh, the 100 words, like that.
Probably, uh, uh, I'm following the same pattern,
uh, so probably, uh... Sir, please confirm, uh, like,
uh, what is the minimum expectation of the classroom notes?
Is there any number of words that, uh, a minimum that needs to be
required? Because for deep learning, that is restricted with 100
words.
100 words?
Maximum. Yeah, max.
Yeah, and, and, and we do it only on LMS.
That will be, that's more easier for us to do this stuff.
Yeah, 100 words max.
So type it
in- Sir, can you just allow me to, uh, screen share over me?
I'll just show you how we are doing for other subjects.
Yeah. Okay. Okay, so then you will,
uh, follow the same pattern of 100 words for this course
also.
Thank you, sir. Actually, we thought of, uh, because most of the pages
keep running, it not making any sense for the people to tier.
If we make it to 100 words, it will be crisp and clear, and we can able to at least
have a gist of what exactly the class notes were about also.
Okay.
But I've uploaded handwritten notes.
Yeah, you compress it and then hand it and upload it.
Yeah. Yeah.
So, we, uh, in the live summary sections, we
get-
Yeah.
In the live summary sections, we get something like this over here.
And, uh, we just go here, and we type,
uh, the-
You can keep... Yeah.
We, we can just, uh, uh, type it and submit our
orals.
Even we have option to... Here we even get option to upload our
file also.
So this
Normally, it's just typed in the screen itself like this, in this box, in
100 words.
Oh.
Uh, if we want to, even we, we'll, uh, we can attach, uh, our video
files and all. So, uh, this is, uh, this is of, uh, how
we are doing for deep learning.
So like something what the lab assignments are there, the, where we need to
provide the Python code file.
But the problem is you are typing this now, they're copy pasting.
How do we detect it?
Uh, for AI labs, uh, here assignment, they are given file upload
option also over here sir.
Hmm.
But this is the, for AI lab, uh, uh, lab
assignment. So the file upload option is given to
us. So if I just go-
So you do one thing, you take a handwritten note, compress it in JPG,
and upload it.
Yeah, so that is also fine. That is also fine what you're saying, but
what, uh,
if it is enabled every week, right, after the end of the class, then it's better.
Because if I miss the Saturday class, and I'm not available on Sunday, then I end
up missing uploading for both the classes.
Understood. Uh, we will do it weekly basis only.
Yeah,
It will be
weekly once you do that job.
Yes, sir.
Yeah.
Timeline will be, timeline will be the same, I think.
You're attending your exam at, by Sunday, 9 PM,
right? So by Sunday, 9 PM, you upload your,
uh, this
note also.
Okay.
So, uh, one more thing, the classroom notes, that timeline is, like I
said, it's at 9 AM. Because, uh, on Saturday full, we
have, uh, classes, uh, within a Sunday morning, 9 AM.
So, uh, it's very difficult for us.
Uh, Sunday, Sunday 9 PM. We are keeping it Sunday 9 PM.
Hello, it was Sunday 9 PM, sir.
Hmm.
I think it is 9 AM. Sometimes it's shown as 9 PM.
9 PM. 9 PM. I thought that said PM on it, 9 PM.
Okay. Okay. Sorry. Maybe I
...
Okay, fine.
So, so, so what, what, what is the decision that is taken?
It will be enabled after each class, or only on Sunday?
No, no, no. Only weekly one time you do the uploading.
It will be open till Sunday 9 PM. There is no-
So it should be handwritten?
Uh, yeah.
Uh, it should be hand
written. Sir, actually, I take, uh, uh, the notes like this, and I
even improvise it over here. So is this allowable,
or we have to write with hand?
Uh, this is a screenshot you are taking.
Screenshot, and then, uh, I usually make detailed notes like
this. Here,
Richard. Hmm. You write on your, on yourself.
Yeah, yes, I, uh, this is the-
Are you serious
... see, I, I, every slide I make-
Hmm. ... my detail notes over here. This is, this notes is
around? Or I written
handwritten.
No, no, no, this, uh, nowadays if you upload this PDF, ChatGPT will do everything
for you. You write on yourself just one page, one
page.
Okay.
Take a snapshot, compress it, upload it.
Yeah.
Sure.
So, so, so that is fine, sir. What I'm also saying is like if you, uh, enable the
link only once on Sunday-
Hmm.
... and if a student misses the Sun- Saturday, he is not available on the
weekend, then he misses uploading notes for both the classes.
So if you enable it, uh, every day after the class, it is better what I'm
saying, sir.
Enabling every day-
Yeah, the rest, if you weak, I mean, if you miss for one week, can
we add the notes for the next week, sir?
Is it fine?
I, I will talk to the supporting. I have no idea.
I have never logged into this uploading option.
I just upload my lecture note. That's it.
I will talk to supportive and then I will-
For all the other classes, right, it happens right after the class.
They give it one-day window or after the class we upload for that
week. Then even if I miss the next class, then it's, I don't end up
missing the class note uploading for the previous one.
Like what we are, in this process, there's a problem, I
think.
Yes, sir. Actually, um, this uploading to our, adding to LMS
is quite easy and we have been doing that from semester one also.
Hmm. Okay.
So, not like,
Okay then, uh, yeah, that I understood. I will go...
First time I'm taking this class in LMS.
Okay.
So, as the other courses are doing on the same day uploading, you
want that option?
Yes, yes.
Yes.
So actually, they give one day off, one day, sir.
After, today is the class, tomorrow evening we have the day.
So one day we have this option to upload.
So they'll, they'll enable it right after the class and we get a one-day window to
upload after every class.
That way it's, it's better for... I mean, I think that is a better
approach.
Okay, fine. Then I will tell my support team
also. By one, another (clears throat) one day you
want to upload for the previous day's class note, right?
Yes. Yeah.
Okay, fine.
The next day until midnight. Yeah.
Uh, next day until midnight, 12, I mean, till 11:30
PM-
Yeah.
... it will be open. Okay, fine.
Okay, fine.
So this could be written digitally or this should be handwritten?
Uh, which one are you suggesting
No, no, you write your own hand and then take a snapshot, compress it,
upload it.
Yes, sir. Okay.
So the
Because this ChatGPT is taking, ChatGPT is taking a huge
toll on the education system.
Yeah.
People are going to be losing their memory and correlating their mind with
the thought, uh, in hand and thought and all.
Right.
It's going to be a huge toll on the coming generation.
The last two classes we have, uh, uh-
Already uploaded in the typed manner.
So maybe from next time you can do that. Yeah.
Okay, fine. Yes, from this one, yeah, yeah, you do it.
From here onwards yeah, we do it.
Okay.
This class is not going to be heavy because the content are not too high.
I have not kept too many high content.
Yep, yep.
Okay. Okay, fine.
Now will you be enabling, uh, uh, uploading for today?
Yeah. Tomorrow till, I mean, third today.
By 4th of December
for every class basis-
... next day by 24 hours. Okay. I mean, till 11:30
PM.
Okay, sir. Noted. Thank you.
So now it will be enabled, right, sir?
Yes, yes.
So it will be on L- LMS or it's like can still the PDF
thing?
It will be on LMS only.
Okay.
In LMS you have to upload a handwritten document. Okay, scan and then upload
that. Oh, yes, yes, handwritten here.
Oh, okay.
You want to kindly send us that too, right?
Yes, sir.
You want to say... Okay, so that means the, I think the coursework is going
to get over in this semester? Or you have
one more coursework that we take
today? We have a little bit coursework in the next one also, like I think three.
Oh, okay, okay.
So even in the fourth one, so even in the fourth one we have actually.
Yes, in the fourth semester also we have the coursework.
Okay.
Oh, oh, the projects that you are doing are related to your company's project
or you have taken academic
projects?
It's different, sir. In companies, not all of us are working on AI in the com- in
our companies. So the projects are different.
Different, okay fine.
But all are research based.
Okay, fine.
Okay, thank you. Have a good night.
Thank you, sir.
Okay.
Thank you.